all right so now we have talked about
this real number system joining with the
imaginary numbers and becoming the
complex number system so all of our
complex numbers will come in the form of
as some number plus and then we have an
imaginary part okay so now we've we've
introduced this thing I this bi but we
need to know what it is okay
the imaginary unit denoted by this I is
defined as the number whose square is
negative one very fancy way to say I
squared equals negative one this is
something that you have to know you just
you have to memorize it now if I squared
is negative one then if we were to take
the square root of both sides I would
have to equal the square root of
negative one again this is another thing
that we just have to memorize so you're
gonna have actually a list of four
things whenever we're done with this
section that you have to know off the
top of your head so I equals the square
root of negative one I squared equals
negative one those are your first two in
that list of four things that we're
going to create okay so let's see how in
the world this will help us in looking
at problems so let's go through this
example here we have first of all this
says write each of the following is a
pure imaginary number now when we talk
about pure imaginary numbers we're
talking about just the BI part we're not
talking you know it remember it said
that all of our complex numbers come in
the form of a plus bi if we just have
this part it's called the pure imaginary
whenever we join it with the real part
is whenever we really talk about it as
being a truly complex number okay so if
we're gonna write this as an imaginary
number let's just pretend that we did
not have that negative there if we just
saw
square root of 16 then we would say oh
well the square root of 16 is 4 but
because of that negative there in a way
it's as if you are breaking this up into
16 times negative 1 and then taking the
square root of each one remember I'm
doing that with the other square roots
so the square root of 16 would be 4 and
the square root of negative 1 by
definition is I so this would be 4 I now
we can look at it also if we see the
square root of negative 16 or something
similar if you understand that that
negative is going to create an eye you
can just work with the number part and
then tack the eye on at the end so we
could look at this and say ok let's
ignore the negative for a minute the
square root of 16 would be 4 and then
because we have that negative we have to
tack on the eye that's exactly what I'm
going to do here I'm gonna ignore this
negative for a minute and just look at
the square root of 3 well the square
root of 3 cannot be broke down any
further there are not two things that
multiply together to get 3 and one of
them is a perfect square so really and
truly we just have to leave this as the
square root of 3 but that negative part
that's what creates the eye someone
attack the eye on at the end so our
answer would be the square root of 3 I
now the eye is not underneath the
radical that's very important you have
to make sure that you are outside of the
radical before you put in your eye
hugely important ok what about this one
here again let's just ignore that we're
working with the negative if we just
have the 18 then we would say that would
be 9 times 2 and we would take the
square root of each one of those and
then we would say well the square root
of 9 is 3 and we can't do anything with
the square root of 2 so we have to leave
it but because we had that negative
underneath the
radical we have to tack on the eye at
the end so this would be 3 square roots
of 2 I